---
layout: post
title: "Proposal"
---

## Final project proposal - Sensor technologies for interactive environments 

Face-inator: an analog, photodiode based face detector  
Amos Golan and Eran Weissenstern

### Abstract:
Our plan is to build an array of NxN photodiodes (probably 3X3) to use as an analog face detector using the face detection algorithm described in Viola & Jones paper: ”Robust Real-Time Face Detection” International Journal of Computer Vision 57(2), 137–154, 2004.

The voltage output coming out of each photodiode circuit will be summed using summing amplifiers. Summing of the different “pixels” will be done according to the Viola-Jones features B (resembling the eye region) and C (resembling the nose bridge), where each photodiode correspond to a summed area of pixels. 

The sum of “black regions” will be subtracted from “white” regions using a subtracting differential amplifier to obtain a voltage.

This resulting voltage will be compared to a reference voltage (using a comparator) which will determine if an image has passed the first test, outputting high or low, based on the test outcome.
An AND gate will check if both tests were satisfied. If so, the resulting voltage output will light up an LED.


Figure 1. Images taken from the original V+J paper showing features B&C used to detect faces 


> Since the Attentional Cascade is built in a way that “... the two-feature classifier can be adjusted to detect 100% of the faces with a false positive rate of 50%.” (Viola & Jones)

This analog face detector can be used in conjunction with other sensors (as temperature, capacitive) to remove the false positive rate even more, by detecting live presence of a human face near the sensor.

Figure 2. Suggested (rough) schematic of the circuit showing one test



